Steven Pence
September 19, 2017
Professor Yeng
COMM 107
COMM 107 Preparation Speech Outline
Topic: Collapse of the Western Roman Empire
Attention Strategy: Relate to modern day American Politics along with using relevant analogies to tie in ancient Rome with modern society.
Central Idea: Mob Rule in Politics and the Collapse of Western Rome 
Purpose Statement: Explain how the increasing influence military officials had on Roman politics contributed to its eventual destruction.
Significance: History is fun, and the importance of unity

Introduction: 
	I. Introduce basic Roman background information
	II. Explain the might of the Roman Military
A. Battle of Strasbourg where an outnumbered Roman army lost 243 men in the process of killing 8000 Germanic barbarians
B. Explanation of how despite engaging in repeated civil wars starting from Caesar Rome never lost significant territory to barbarian invasions

Body:
I. Emphasis Placed Upon the Military
A. Emperors had to appeal to the military to secure their reign
1. They raised taxes and increased pensions for soldiers
2. After prominent campaigns, soldiers would elevate their general to Augustus status, often embroiling the empire into civil war
a. The Third Century Crisis saw 26 emperors in less than 50 years
b. Augustus Julian was unable to refuse his rank after his soldiers forced him into a civil war that nearly marked the end of Rome
		B. Resultant Instability and Fallout
1. The pay raises and large-scale army expansions demanded money, which devastated the economy.
2. Frequent civil wars invited barbarian invasions and revolts, which although were quickly extinguished by the superior Roman army, only led to more instability and conflict
	II. Relation to more Modern times
A. Pandering to the Masses and its consequences
1. Just as Roman emperors pandered to their military, modern politics paints the same image of politicians making impossible and shortsighted promises to their constituency.
2. Results in a rule of the masses where logic and sound decision making falls to the wayside in favor or rash and spontaneously fulfilling decisions.
B. The Eventual Collapse of Rome, and the happens on American Politics Now
1. Rome implodes after its internal strife sufficiently interferes with its ability to deal with foreign invaders.
2. The 2016 presidential election saw the implosion of both the Democratic and Republican ‘mainstream’ party lines, resulting in an ‘outsider’ being elected and the eventual collapse/reformation of both parties.
	III. The Decline and Eventual Fall of Western Rome
A. Rome is powerless against 5th century barbarian invasions after spending centuries focused on domestic conflicts (Attila the Hun, Alaric the Sack of Rome)
B. Rome falls apart in all but name and a new age is heralded
Conclusion:
	I. General Recap
	II. From the ashes rises the phoenix
A. Out of Rome rises new Kingdoms that would eventually lead to the map of Europe today. Roman culture may have been lost, but it was never forgotten
B. Perhaps out of the crisis the political parties face today the old and obsolete will die out and result in a stronger new party.

Sources (Credibility):
http://www.tribunesandtriumphs.org/roman-empire/causes-for-the-fall-of-the-roman-empire.htm
https://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/HIST301-7.2.4-CrisisThirdCentury-FINAL.pdf
https://www.usna.edu/Users/history/abels/hh381/late_roman_barbarian_militaries.htm
