	The air was filled with smoke and blood. The Huns gloried in the stench of death and the whole of Europe trembled under their might.  “He was a man born to shake the nations, the scourge of all lands. He was haughty in his walk, and the power of proud spirit manifested in the movements of his body.” He was Attila, the Scourge of the Gods. It was 451AD, and Eastern Europe lay in ruins. A trail of carnage stretched from Constantinople to France, and two armies faced off on the Catalaunian Fields. In what would be the bloodiest battle of the century, Roman invincibility would be proven once again, but at the cost of 150,000 lives, a comparatively conservative estimate by historian Jordanes of 6th century Rome.  
	Attila had reigned supreme over all he encountered, be it the Gepids, the Visigoths, or even the Byzantines. But the Romans were different. In the battle that would define the future of Europe, the Huns were driven back, and would never again flourish as they once had. As noted military historian Trevor Dupuy writes, “the Roman legions, at that time, were the best trained, disciplined, equipped, and supplied military formations of the world.” And today, I will explain the basic outline of the Roman army, including its military strategies and unit composition.
	My first topic is about the overall military strategy The Roman Empire employed, which was one of “defense-in-depth”, a strategy historian Edward Luttwak describes as one where threats would be neutralized before they reached the border. Romans treated foreign threats much like how we deal with our problems today. When we have a problem, the first thing we do is consult what’s on hand, Google. For the Romans, it was their Limitanei, frontier armies that respond to small-scale raids and act as an early warning system. For us, Google solved most of our problems, and likewise, Rome’s frontier armies were more than enough to deal with most threats. However, should they fail, there were larger armies stationed in strategic strongholds, the Comitatenses. In modern day, they would be the friends and family that we ask if google couldn’t help us. Unfortunately, much like our relatives, the Comitatenses typically only served as moral support and someone to fall back to. From there, there was the Comitatus Praesentales, imperial escort armies that served as the last line of defense against large scale invasions. They would be akin to the professional help we seek, like a doctor, or your professor. If they can’t solve it, then you’re screwed, but luckily for both you and for Rome, this last line of defense was usually extremely effective and resolved the problem. 



	The next focus of my speech is to showcase Roman military discipline and leadership through the battle of Strasbourg, which is well documented by historian Marcellinus, who personally fought in the battle. 

	The air was dry and two armies faced off on the fields of Strasbourg. The Romans had just marched 6 hours, rushing to stop Chnodomar from hurting any more Roman citizens.
	In the blink of an eye the barbarians rushed forward with Chnodomar leading the charge himself, hoping to simply overwhelm the Romans with superior numbers.
	Blood sprayed through the air as countless barbarians rushed forward into the waiting Roman spear line. Chnodomar knew breaking through the line of heavy infantry would be difficult: fatal blows against the lightly armored barbarians were ineffective against Roman heavy infantry.
	Forming a dense globe of elite troops, he smashed through the center, and from the side thousands of barbarians rushed from the treeline, planning to smash into the weakened Roman flank.
	But Julius, the Roman general, had directed the army from the rear as opposed to fighting in the front, quickly responded by sending his a unit to secure his flank while committing his elite troops to plug the gap Chnodomar had made. 
	Their formation cut off, the barbarians quickly routed and were massacred as they fled. The horrifying reality was that the Romans had lost but a couple hundred soldiers in exchange for over 8 thousand Germanic lives, demonstrating the effectiveness of Roman discipline and military strategy.

	The Roman Empire survived for 453 years in the West and the Byzantine persisted for another 973 years. Considering the United States has not even been around for a mere 250 years, a Roman legacy that spanned a millennium and a half, 6 times that of the US, is truly an empire that has withstood the test of time. As their backbone was the mightily Roman army, who, with their superior logistics, discipline, and leadership coupled with a flexible defense in depth strategy, protected the empire and reigned supreme over Europe, forever etching its legacy into the annuls of history. 






JORDANES --- THE ORIGIN AND DEEDS OF THE GOTHS

"Attila The Hun." International Military and Defense Encyclopedia, edited by Trevor N. Dupuy, Macmillan Reference USA, 1993. World History in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/BT2342200069/WHIC?u=bishops&xid=ba45bf49. Accessed 1 Oct. 2017.

Luttwak, Edward (1976). Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire.

LIBANIUS' FUNERAL ORATION UPON THE EMPEROR JULIAN.

AMMIANUS MARCELLINUS -- ROMAN ANTIQUITIES


