Argumentative Essay
	Today, we argue about everything, and about things that may never even affect us. We’re at each other’s throats over religion, we argue over music tastes, and don’t get me started on politics. But there is, in fact, something that everyone agrees on: that saving the environment is important. Show of hands, who thinks we should try to save the environment? Let me ask a different question: If I gave you a million dollars to run for student president on the platform that we should use more Styrofoam, would you do it? Regardless of whether you would agree or not, the truth of the matter is that this type of corruption happens every day in our own government. According to the Center of Responsive Politics, large corporations raised a total of 1.8 billion dollars for the 2016 campaign cycle, buying out politicians for their support in Congress. This isn’t our government should be about. Our country was founded on the principle that the government exists to serve the people. Corporations and the wealthy few should not be allowed to usurp the voice of the people by buying out politicians through the promise of campaign funds. Today, I will inform you about how corporations and special interests influence elections and how such actions directly affect us, the people. 
	Money has always been synonymous with power, and running a successful campaign costs an extraordinary amount of money. According to Maplight, a non-profit, non-partisan research organization that tracks money in politics, in 2013, the average Senator needed to raise more than 10 million dollars to fund a successful campaign. Most people don’t have that kind of disposable income, and require outside funding from their supporters. In the golden dream of democracy, this money comes hundreds of thousands of individuals each donating small sums of money as an expression of their support for the candidate. In reality, these grassroot organizations are largely overshadowed by Super-PACs donating millions of dollars at a time. Data compiled by the Federal Election Commission report that just 20 of the wealthiest donors contributed over 500 million dollars to the 2016 election cycle. If the average American donates around 25 dollars, then these 20 individuals have the same influence as 20 million people. 
	When politicians can turn to these special interests and wealthy elite for money, why would they focus on spending their time and energy rallying their constituency for money and support? With all of the money in government today, politics is no longer a matter of who the people support more, but of which politician is perceived as more beneficial to lobbying giants like big oil, or big pharmacy. A study conducted by professors Martin Gilens and Benjamin Page under Princeton University in 2014 demonstrates that the influence the general public has in politics is largely marginalized when compared to the influence economic elites have. As the graphic shows, the amount of support average citizens have towards a policy has little effect on how likely the legislation is passed. Contrast this graph to the next. While the influence of the elite is not absolute, policies that they support have a high likelihood of passing through congress, while measures they oppose rarely see the light of day. A classic example of the influence special interests have is the tobacco industry, which uses extensive money and marketing to suppress and ultimately delay for decades anti-tobacco legislation and research from passing through Congress to reach the public.  
	To have special interests and the wealthy elite be able to influence politics to this extent is subversive to the very idea of a democracy. Our country was created around the idea that people have the right to representation in government. We were the first country to truly embrace democracy and we stand at the forefront of the world today. Since the foundation of our country, we have fought at every turn to ensure that people are properly represented. The 15th and 19th amendments granted suffrage to women and people of color. When corporations treated their employees unfairly, we unionized to fight for labor reform. We have participated in countless wars to fight for democracy around the world. So why is, that today, our people don’t even have representation in our own government? Investigative reporters under the MapLight organization have compiled some startling statistics regarding Congress and its policies. Why is that democratic holdouts on “Medicare For All” have received so much money from insurance companies? Why is that the politicians who sponsored a bill to restrict consumer lawsuits received so much money from banking industries? Why is that the representatives who oppose the Clear Air Act received so much money from oil, gas, and chemical industries? In his 2010 dissenting opinion on Citizens United against the FEC, Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens wrote that "A democracy cannot function effectively when its constituent members believe laws are being bought and sold." Unfortunately, this idea is becoming increasingly prevalent in our modern-day politics.
	If we don’t want our democracy to become an oligarchy, then the most important thing is to increase our awareness. The issue of campaign finance has been a problem since it was first raised by Theodore Roosevelt in 1905, and we have come a long way since the political machines of the Gilded Age, when oil and bank barons literally bought the 1896 presidency. Today, legislation regarding the regulation of campaign finance continues to appear before Congress, and if we want to support these policies, we can directly petition and write letters to our own representatives. However, what’s more important is to stay informed and spread awareness about this issue. Luckily, our government is still a democracy, not an oligarchy, and money alone is not enough to win elections. If we, the people, stay informed and show our desire to fix the campaign finance system, our representatives will naturally address the issue. General awareness and anger over special interests and corporate spending in politics has already led to legislation regulating campaign finance, such as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, but it isn’t enough. The wealthy elite and large corporations still hold too much sway over politics. If you want a voice in the government that represents you, join the growing movement against political corruption and special interests in politics and fight to return the government to one that serves the people, not corporate interests and the wealthy elite.









Sources
https://www.opensecrets.org/pacs/superpacs.php?cycle=2016
https://maplight.org/story/whats-the-cost-of-a-seat-in-congress/
https://www.opensecrets.org/pacs/superpacs.php?cycle=2016
http://classic.fec.gov/disclosurep/PCandList.do
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/perspectives-on-politics/article/testing-theories-of-american-politics-elites-interest-groups-and-average-citizens/62327F513959D0A304D4893B382B992B/core-reader 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/08-205.ZX.html 
