	The air was filled with smoke and blood. The Huns gloried in the stench of death and the whole of Europe trembled under their might.  “He was a man born to shake the nations, and the power of proud spirit manifested in the movements of his body.” He was Attila, the Scourge of the Gods. It was 451AD, and a trail of carnage stretched from Constantinople to France, and in what would be the bloodiest battle of the century, Roman invincibility would be proven once again, but at the cost of 150,000 lives, a comparatively conservative estimate by historian Jordanes of 6th century Rome.  
	Attila had reigned supreme over all he encountered. But the Romans were different. As noted military historian Trevor Dupuy writes, “the Roman legions, at that time, were the best trained, disciplined, equipped, and supplied military formations of the world.” And today, I will explain some of the basic strategies the Romans employed.

	My first topic is about the defense strategy The Roman Empire employed, which was one of “defense-in-depth”, a strategy historian Edward Luttwak describes as a 3-tier defense system. First, frontier armies were stationed at the border to ward off small scale raids and act as an early warning system. Larger armies were then stationed in strategic strongholds to respond to more serious threats. And finally, there were imperial escort armies to defend against large scale invasions. The way Romans treated foreign threats is like how we deal with our problems today. When we have a problem, we first try to solve it ourselves. For small problems, this was enough, and likewise, Rome’s frontier armies sufficiently dealt with most threats. However, should we fail, we often go to friends and family for advice. Unfortunately, they’re typically unhelpful, and only really provide moral support. Similarly, when frontier armies reported a serious threat, stationed armies typically waited for support from the imperial army before engaging. This would be akin to seeking professional help, like a doctor, or your professor. If they can’t solve it, then you’re screwed, but luckily, this last line of defense was usually extremely effective and resolved the problem. This flexible defensive strategy maximized the ground an army could cover while minimizing the costs associated with such large-scale deployment. The question of how and when to deploy powerful, but costly troops has been debated throughout the ages, and even today our modern governments struggle with balancing military budgets and deployment issues.



	Along with a system to address foreign threats, Romans also had to resolve them, and the next focus of my speech is to showcase Roman military discipline and leadership through the battle of Strasbourg, which is well documented by historian Marcellinus, who personally fought in the battle. 
	The air was dry and two armies faced off. The Romans had just marched 6 hours, and they wearily eyed the fresh and eager barbarians.
	In the blink of an eye they surged forward, Chnodomar leading the charge himself, hoping to simply overwhelm the Romans with superior numbers.
	Blood sprayed through the air as they charged into the waiting spear line. But breaking through Romans heavy infantry would be difficult: fatal blows against the lightly armored barbarians were ineffective against heavy infantry.
	Forming a dense globe of elite troops, Chnodomar smashed through the center, and from the side thousands of barbarians rushed from the tree-line, planning to hit the weakened Roman flank.
	But Julius, the Roman general, quickly responded: sending a unit to secure his flank while committing elite troops to plug the gap Chnodomar had made. 
	Cut off and surrounded, Chonodomar could only in horror as his formation crumbled and his soldiers massacred as they fled in panic. Through superior discipline and leadership, an outnumbered Roman army had massacred over 8 thousand barbarians at the cost of just 243 men. Romans were experts of war, and the renowned leadership of their generals pulled through time and time again, despite overwhelming odds.

	The Roman Empire survived for 400 years and the Byzantines persisted for another thousand. Considering the U.S. and its 250 years of history, a Roman legacy spanning a millennium and a half, 6 times that of the US, has truly withstood the test of time. At their backbone was the army, who, through superior discipline and leadership coupled with a flexible defense strategy, protected the empire from Attila, from Chnodomar, and countless other threats, forever etching its legacy into the annuls of history. 






JORDANES --- THE ORIGIN AND DEEDS OF THE GOTHS

"Attila The Hun." International Military and Defense Encyclopedia, edited by Trevor N. Dupuy, Macmillan Reference USA, 1993. World History in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/BT2342200069/WHIC?u=bishops&xid=ba45bf49. Accessed 1 Oct. 2017.

Luttwak, Edward (1976). Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire.

LIBANIUS' FUNERAL ORATION UPON THE EMPEROR JULIAN.

AMMIANUS MARCELLINUS -- ROMAN ANTIQUITIES


