Dorm Problem: 
	To begin, let’s talk about how staying healthy on campus can be different from staying healthy at home. For one, we’re in contact with so many different people every day. Between the people living on your floor, your teachers and classmates, and the people we encounter in the dining halls, students are in contact with no less than at least a thousand-different people every day. And while we can be expected take good care of ourselves and what we do, there is little that we can do about others. Unfortunately, often it is what these other people do, or fail to do, that cause us to become sick. According to Brittany, a residential assistant for La Plata Hall, it is without a doubt that among the dirtiest places we students frequently use are communal restrooms and washrooms. Everyone needs to use the restroom, and if even just one person is sick, then they are going to leave behind germs that will spread to everyone else.
	Aside from restrooms, there are also many other places we use without realizing just how dirty they may be. The thing about public restrooms is that everyone understands they aren’t the cleanest place in the world, and thus, we’re all careful to wash our hands and keep clean after using them. But what about water fountains, public desks, or keyboards? A 2008 study conducted by Which? Computing, an independent consumer research organization, found that public computer keyboards had on average had over 3 million and 5 hundred thousand colony forming bacteria units, around 5 times dirtier than the average public toilet seat. But whereas we all hopefully wash our hands after using the restroom, who even thinks about washing their hands after using a computer or after attending a session of class? 


	In this environment where we are in frequent contact with so many different people, sicknesses are too easily passed around, even if unintentionally. And where else is it easier to transmit pathogens than in dorms, where students return to everyday. Personal hygiene is something everyone cares about. No one wants to be in a dirty environment, especially not when it comes to the space they’re living in. However, while it may be easy enough to clean up after ourselves at home - in our private space - dorms are another environment entirely.  Many things that were once considered personal are now shared among many others. Doorknobs, light switches, furniture, and restrooms just to name a few.
      All of this is what ultimately contributes to the high risk of students getting sick in college, especially freshmen who are otherwise unaware of the health risks associated with college dorm life. The unfortunate truth of the matter is that when one person on your floor gets sick, you can except several others to immediately follow suit. The problem is that not only are we in frequent contact with people who are sick, we also don’t take too much care to be careful around them. I know I’m guilty of it. Just a few weeks past my roommate came down with a cold that lasted for around a week, but I was fine at the time. I didn’t care too much about the fact that he was sick, and while we didn’t share any food, we used each other’s textbooks, furniture, computers, anything but food. I thought I was going to be fine, but what else could I expect except for getting sick and feeling miserable a week later. Sickness is far too common in college dorms and is treated more as a regular occurrence than an unfortunate incident. We’ve become so used to seeing and being around sick students that we’re no longer pay attention to it, which unfortunately, only exacerbates the issue of sickness on campus. 
