	Over the course of this semester I have learned the basics about public speaking, and more importantly, how I can improve upon my speaking abilities. Prior to taking this course, I had little experience with public speaking, with my sole experiences being a few school presentations and the occasional interview. This class taught the importance behind proper structing of a speech and its effective delivery. When I was preparing for Informative I, I was already trying to use what I had learned for this class in the speech. Prior, I was under the impression that informative speeches were akin to lectures, where information was the most important thing. This class taught me audience reception to the speech was equally, if not more, important, than the transfer of information that the speech is intended for. For, if the audience is not paying attention to the speaker, then how can the speaker communicate to the audience? However, while the class had taught me many ways to keep the audience engaged and focused, I was not comfortable with all the techniques. Humor was never my strong point in front of large audiences, and I wasn’t comfortable with telling stories. Thus, I tried my best to connect my topic, Roman military politics, to modern politics. I put a lot of effort into that speech, and I was quite proud of the end result, but looking back, the style was a little too personalized for my own taste, and my delivery was a little stiff.
	Informative I taught me there were many facets to public speaking beyond just what the speech was about and audience engagement. At that point, I was confident in the information presented, but not so much on delivery or the connection to the audience. As such, for Informative II, those were the points I focused on. I told a story alongside my presentation, and I simplified the content in my speech many times before finally reaching my final draft. The more technical details, like Roman names, were cut to make my speech simpler and easier to understand, and to make room for areas that would help me retain the audience’s attention. My biggest takeaway from Informative II was actually related to timing. I spent so much time putting everything into my speech that when I practiced, I was hitting the 5-minute mark almost exactly, with 5 to 10 seconds to spare. However, during my presentation, I was behind on time, had to scramble mid speech to cut some portions out to remain within the time limit. For future speeches, I made to sure to always give myself 30 seconds of leeway so that I would not have to worry about timing issues. 
	By the time it got to the Group Presentation, while I can’t say definitively that I was any better at giving speeches, I was much more familiar with the process and components that make up a good speech. The time I spent writing these speeches decreased, and I was more comfortable with making my speeches sound nature while retaining the essential information. While procrastination on my end certainly played a part, the 3 days I spent just writing and testing out my 3 minute Informative I speech was shortened to just a few hours preparing my portion of the Group Presentation. Sure, there was a lot of changes made after the fact, both to improve my speech and to adjust it to fulfill all of the requirements, but the process in which I wrote the speech was faster and more natural.
	As a listener, I believe there is not much that I want to focus on improving, as I’ve always been more of a listener than a speaker. As a speaker, there is still much I should improve on. Particularly, I am bad at unplanned speeches. All the speeches I gave this semester had entire scripts attached. Nothing was done on the fly: before every presentation I had memorized exactly what I wanted to say. The outlines, presentation or preparation, were all for show and created entirely after the fact. Initially, this was done because I wanted my speeches to flow naturally, something that I had trouble with using an outline. However, I never really moved on from this point, which was one reason why it took so long to write my speeches. By the Group Presentation, I had improved: a portion of my speech was modeled off the outline instead of the other way around, but it was a small step in that direction. During the in-class preparation outline reviews, I was never able to deliver a speech based just on my outline. Reading off the outline itself and adding a few sentences in between was all I was capable of. For one of my other classes, there was a group presentation on a project the group had been working on throughout the semester. Our group made a storyboard for a game, and I not only wrote the entire story, but also came up with the game design. As such, presenting on not just my own part, but the entire story should have been easy. During a practice session, my other group members were more or less able to improv speeches for their portions and for some parts outside of what they had done, but I couldn’t. Even though I knew exactly what needed to be said, I wasn’t able to put it into words until I had created a script.
	Along with improving my current speaking abilities, I hope to keep in mind what I have learned in COMM and apply it to my everyday life. While I am not sure what future presentations I will have to give, many of the speaking tips, especially those on delivery, will be useful in everyday life and in interviews, when impressions are especially important. I believe that taking this course has greatly improved my own communication abilities, and that it will reflect in my everyday life. 
