Steven Pence
COMM 107
Persuasive Speech Outline
Speech Structure: Problem - Cause – Solution
Topic: Super-PACS and Campaign Finance

Introduction:
I. What would you do for a million dollars?
A. A million dollars is a lot of money, and many people would be willing to compromise their morals for that much money
B. Unfortunately, the amount of money that corporate interest and the super wealthy donate to politicians far exceed 1 million.
C. According to the Center of Responsive Politics, large corporations raised a total of 1.8 billion dollars for the 2016 campaign cycle. (CRP 2016)
II. Politicians are bought and sold for their support in Congress, but people have a right to representation in government.
A.  America was founded on the idea that government exists to serve the people.
B. Corporations and the wealthy few should not be allowed to usurp the voice of the people through the promise of campaign funds.

Transition Statement / Purpose Statement: Today, I will inform you about how corporations and special interests influence elections and how such actions directly affect us, the people. 
Body Paragraph 1: [Grounds - Why is money relevant in politics]
I. Money is synonymous with power, and running for office requires lots of money.
A. According to Maplight, a non-profit, non-partisan research organization that tracks money in politics, in 2013, the average Senator needed to raise more than 10 million dollars to fund a successful campaign. (Jay 2013)
B. Without money, candidates cannot run ads or hold campaign events like rallies, limiting ways they can reach out to voters and putting them at a disadvantage
II. Most people do not have a lot of money that they can throw into politics and require outside funding to help them run for office.
A. In the golden dream of democracy, hundreds of thousands of individuals each donating small sums of money as an expression of their support for the candidate.
B. In reality grassroot organizations are largely overshadowed by wealthy Super PACs donating millions at a time.
1. The Federal Election Commission report that just 20 of the wealthiest donors contributed over 500 million dollars to the 2016 election cycle. (FEC 2016)
2. If the average American donates around 25 dollars, then these 20 individuals have the same influence as 20 million people.

Body Paragraph 2: [Warrant – Money has too much influence in politics / Logic Appeal]
I. Politics is no longer a matter of who the people support, but of who is more beneficial to lobbying giants.
A. With special interests and the wealthy donating millions, politics do not need to worry about rallying their constituency for money and support
B. A study conducted by professors Martin Gilens and Benjamin Page under Princeton University in 2014 shows that the influence the general public has in politics is small when compared the to the influence of economic elite. (Gilens, Page 2014)
1. Policies the economic elite they support have a high likelihood of passing through Congress.
2. Policies the economic elite oppose rarely see the light of day.
II. The tobacco industry used money to suppress and delay anti-tobacco legislation and research from passing through Congress to reach the public. 


Body Paragraph 3: [Backing – How money has influenced politics / Emotional Appeal]
I. To have special interests and the wealthy elite influence politics to this extent is subversive to the very idea of a democracy.
A. Our country was founded on the idea that people have the right to representation in their government.
1. We’re the first country to embrace democracy and we serve as an example to the rest of the world.
2. We amended our Constitution to grant women and colored people the right to vote.
3. We unionized and fought for worker rights.
4. We have fought in countless wars for democracy around the world
B. Yet, our people do not have representation in our own government today.
II. Investigative reporters under the MapLight organization have compiled some startling statistics regarding Congress and its policies this year in 2017.
A. Democratic holdouts on “Medicare For All” have received a lot of money from insurance companies. (Perez 2017)
B. Politicians supporting a bill to restrict consumer lawsuits received a lot of money from banking industries. (Weiz 2017)
C. Politicians who oppose the Clean Air Act have received a lot of money from oil, gas, and chemical industries.
III. In his 2010 dissenting opinion on Citizens United against the FEC, Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens wrote that "A democracy cannot function effectively when its constituent members believe laws are being bought and sold." (Stevens 2009)

Body Paragraph 4 / Conclusion: [Call to Action / Conclusion]
I. To fight against the problem of political corruption and campaign finance, we need to raise awareness of the issue.
A. The issue of campaign finance has been a problem since it was first raised by Theodore Roosevelt in 1905.
1. We’re come a long way since the Gilded Age, when money was all that mattered in politics
2. Rockefeller bought politicians in New York by funding political machines that supported them.
B. Legislation regarding the regulation of campaign finance continues to appear before Congress.
1. We can directly petition and write letters to our own representatives about the legislation.
2. It is more important to raise awareness about the issue overall
II. Increasing awareness about campaign finance issues have catalyzed legislation in the past.
A. The U.S. is still a democracy, and representatives have to respond to issues that the people feel strongly about.
B. Anger over money spending in politics has led to legislation regulating campaign finance such as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002
III. The wealthy elite and large corporations still hold too much sway over politics.
A. If you want a voice in the government that represents you, join the growing movement against political corruption and special interests.
B. Join the fight to return the government to one that serves the people, not corporate interests and the wealthy elite.
















Works Cited
 “2016 Presidential Campaign Finance.” Presidential Candidate List, Federal Election Comittee, 
      2016, classic.fec.gov/disclosurep/PCandList.do.
Costa, Jay. “What’s the Cost of a Seat in Congress?” MapLight, Creative Commons, 10 Mar. 
      2013, maplight.org/story/whats-the-cost-of-a-seat-in-congress/.
Gilens, Martin, and Benjamin I. Page. “Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest 
      Groups, and Average Citizens.” Cambridge Core, Cambridge University Press, 18 Sept. 
      2014,
Perez, Andrew. “Democratic Holdouts On “Medicare For All” Have Received Twice As Much 
      Insurance Industry Cash As Sponsors.” MapLight, Creative Commons, 14 Sept. 2017, 
maplight.org/story/democratic-holdouts-on-medicare-for-all-have-received-twice-as-much-insurance-industry-cash-as-sponsors/.
Stevens, Paul. “CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N.” Legal 
      Information Institute, Cornell University, 24 Mar. 2009.
“Super PACs.” OpenSecrets.org, Center for Responsive Politics, 20 Oct. 2017, 
      www.opensecrets.org/pacs/superpacs.php?cycle=2016.
Weiz, Mathew. “Oil, Gas, and Chemical Money Boosts House Members Pushing to Weaken 
      Clean Air Act.” MapLight, Creative Commons, 18 July 2017, maplight.org/story/oil-gas-
      and-chemical-money-boosts-house-members-pushing-to-weaken-clean-air-act/.
