Main Speech:
	Alright, so my speech topic is about Rome. Let me ask you, how many of you have heard or know something about Rome? Surely everyone right? (Right, everyone knows about Rome) Rome is the Eternal Empire, romanticized in countless works of art. Everyone wants to be like Rome – in fact, after the collapse of the Roman Empire, Europe spent the next 1500 years fighting over who was the legitimate successor of Rome. Remember I said Europe? We aren’t so different either. Look at our white house, which was heavily influenced by Classical architectural, and our democracy, a system first widely implanted by Rome. 
	The point is that people care about Rome and its legacy. But now let me ask you, when I mentioned Rome, how many of you immediately thought of the cutthroat and manipulative politics that dominated her political scene? (Right, no one. / Put your hand down, there’s no way that’s the FIRST thing that came to your mind) But shouldn’t that be relevant, the Roman Republic is essentially the political foundation that every modernized country runs upon. But when it comes to Rome everyone thinks about her legions and military conquest. Which makes sense, it’s easy to weave dramatic and exciting stories about Rome and her victories.
	Now this isn’t to say that Rome and her military weren’t of lasting significance, they played a crucial through throughout the birth and decline of the empire. And as Rome changed throughout the centuries, so did its military, but what never changed was its overwhelming might. As Ammianus Marcellinus, a contemporary 4th century historian, proclaims in his book, the Res Gestae, at the battle of Strasbourg, an outnumbered roman army retook Gaul and routed a much larger barbarian force while losing only 243 soldiers compared to the 8000 Germanic casualties. Rome’s armies were invincible and daring, and they were rarely pressured the countless barbarian invasions that they had to repel. With their superior equipment, chain of command, and military experience, a war between the Roman legions and their barbarian enemies is comparable to that of the British empire against the African tribes.
	With that kind of military, clearly Rome did not have any martial problems, or did they? Because the military was so overwhelming, the political power generals exerted was enormous. After prominent campaigns soldiers would elevate their generals to the status of Augustus, or emperor, and often embroil the empire in a civil war. While this notion may sound absurd and reckless, remember that Caesar himself crowned himself the first emperor through a success coup d'état. This would set a precedent for the future, and in a particularly bloody and unstable period of time called the 3rd Century Crisis, Rome would see 26 emperors in the short span of just 50 years. Imagine having a new President every 2 years. That sounds disastrous as it stands, but now consider that these emperors were generals that had little political experience outside of the military and that with every new election would be a bloody civil war that would divide the nation in half. If that’s too hard to imagine, think about the 2016 presidential campaign repeated every other year with Donald Trump winning every election in a huge upset.
























	Alright, so who here knows anything about Rome? Surely everyone right? Rome is the Eternal Empire, and everyone wants to be like it – in fact Europe spent 1500 years fighting over who was its legitimate successor. Look at our white house, Roman style architecture, or our democracy, Roman style government. 
	The point is people care about Rome and its legacy. But now let me ask, how many of you thought of her cutthroat political scene when I said Rome? Right, no one. But shouldn’t that be relevant? The Roman Republic is the foundation of every modern democracy. But when it comes to Rome it’s all about her magnificent legions and glorious conquests.

	Now this isn’t to say that the military wasn’t significant, Rome’s armies were invincible and daring, successfully defending the empire. As 4th century historian Marcellinus documents in his book Res Gestae, an outnumbered roman army routed a barbarian force by inflicting over 8000 casualties at the cost of just 243 men.
	But Rome’s military invincibility was as much an asset as a liability. Soldiers started civil wars through military revolts, and in a particularly unstable period Rome saw 26 emperors in 50 years. Imagine a new President every 2 years. Now consider that these emperors had little political experience and that each election was a civil war that divides the nation in half. If that’s too hard to imagine, think about the 2016 presidential campaign repeated every other year with Donald Trump winning every election.

      This was a huge problem. To secure their reign, emperors pandered to the military, promising benefits in exchange for loyalty. The Roman government became one of mob rule, where logic fell to the wayside in favor of rash shortsighted policies. Increased wages and army expansions sound rosy on paper, but overburdened and devastated the economy. This internal unrest only invited further invasions and revolts. This vicious cycle crippled the government to the point where it could no longer fund a standing army. No county is complete without a military, and not even the mighty Roman legions could fight against funding.

	Do the events leading up the collapse of the Roman Empire sound familiar? Our politicians also pander to their constituency. If you’re looking for proof, look no further than Trump’s 70 billion dollar wall or the $15 minimum wage. Rome disintegrated due to internal strife that compromised its ability to address foreign invaders, and the 2016 presidential election saw the implosion of both ‘mainstream’ party lines, resulting in an ‘outsider’ being elected. But whereas Rome slowly withered away enduring centuries of political corruption and social instability, our future yet remains undetermined.
