Steven Pence
October 5, 2017
Professor Yang
COMM107
Preparation Outline 
Central Idea: Roman discipline and leadership allowed them to triumph over their enemies.
Purpose Statement: To inform the audience of the Roman “defense-in-depth” strategy and the importance of leadership.

I. The Romans Defeat the Huns on the Catalaunian Fields
	A. Attila the Hun was a powerful and widely successful warlord.
1. “He was a man born to shake the nations, the scourge of all lands. He was haughty in his walk, and the power of proud spirit manifested in the movements of his body.” -Jordanes
2. Attila commanded/subjugated many enemies including the Gepids, the Visigoths, and the Byzantine Empire.
B. Attila marched from Constantinople to Catalaunian, where he faced the Romans.
1. The Huns lost in a major defeat and Attila’s campaigns against Rome were the last hallmarks of glory for the Hunnic Empire.
2. The Battle was one of the most brutal in history and was came at the breath of a dying Rome and her last Empire, yet Rome remains supreme.
3. “The Roman legions, at that time, were the best trained, disciplined, equipped, and supplied military formations of the world.” – Trevor Dupoy

Transition:  My first topic is about the defensive military strategy The Roman Empire employed.
II. Romans employed a defensive military strategy called “Defense in Depth”.
A. Credibility: Edward Luttwak describes as one where threats would be neutralized before they reached the border.
B. How the Roman defense armies were divided.
1. Limitanei were frontier armies that defended the empire from small raids.
a. Comparable to modern use of Google for small problems.
b. Served as an early warning system for major threats.
2. Comitatenses were larger armies stated in strategic strongholds.
a. Comparable to the friends and family that we ask if google couldn’t help us.
b. Comitatenses typically only served as moral support and someone to fall back to.
3. Comitatus Praesentales were imperial escort armies that served as the last line of defense.
a. Comparable to professional help like doctors or professors that we seek in modern times.
b. Used as the campaign force against major invasions and were usually successful in routing them.

Transition: The next focus of my speech is the Battle of Strasbourg.
III. Battle of Strasbourg, with historical documentation provided by Libanius and Marcellinus.
	A. Chnodomar, leader of Germanic Alans, dismounts to fight on front lines.
		1. He forfeits his strategic control over the battle.
		2. To win, he plans to rush and overwhelm the smaller Roman army.
	B. Romans respond by setting up a defensive shield wall/phalanx.
		1. Forces the Alans to charge into the spear line to advance.
		2. Roman heavy infantry equipment was vastly superior to their barbarian’s
	C. Chnodomar has backup plans to break through the Roman line.
		1. He hid reserve forces in the forest to attack the Roman flank.
		2. An elite fighting group was formed to charge through the center.
	D. Julius, the Roman General, was commanding from the backline and easily responds.
		1. His own reserve forces intercepts the ambushing force and routs them.
		2. Roman elites also held in reserve block off Chnodomar’s elites.
	E. Germanic Alans collapse and retreat as their formation collapses.
		1. 8 Thousands Germanic soldiers are killed, but only a few hundred Romans die.
		2. The battle is an excellent demonstration of Roman military discipline and 
      leadership.
IV. Conclusion:
A. The Roman Empire survived for an extraordinary long time.
1. The Roman Empire survived for 453 years in the West and the Byzantine persisted for another 973 years.
2. The U.S. has only been in existence for 250 years, demonstrating the time the Roman empire endured and survived.
B. The military was the backbone of the Roman Empire.
	1. Superior logistics, discipline, leadership allowed the military to triumph.
	2. The Defense in Depth strategy protected Romans from foreign threats.
	3. The Roman military truly carved its legacy in the annals of history.





















Works Cited
Ammianus Marcellinus, Roman Antiquities. Book XVI

"Attila The Hun." International Military and Defense Encyclopedia, edited by Trevor N. Dupuy, Macmillan Reference USA, 1993. World History in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/BT2342200069/WHIC?u=bishops&xid=ba45bf49. Accessed 1 Oct. 2017.

Jordanes, The Origin and Deeds of the Goths. Chapter 35

Libanius, Libanius’ Funeral Oration Upon the Emporer Julian

Luttwak, Edward N. The Grand strategy of the Roman Empire: from the first century CE to the 
      third. The Johns Hopkins University Press, 2016.
      
(Picture Credit)
	https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Battle_of_Argentoratum1.svg 
