Steven Pence
COMM107 
October 12, 2017
Professor Yang
Informative Speech Self - Reflection
	Over the course of writing and presenting these two informative speeches, I feel like I have learned a lot more about speeches and how to compose them, but most importantly, how they should be delivered. Between the core components of composition and deliver, I have found that while composition may consume a lot of time, it is easier to find and correct mistakes than in the delivery. For both informative I and II, I spent the majority of my time researching and writing my speech in a manner in which I hoped the audience would be able to connect to. My topic, Roman government, was extremely broad, but drawing connections to a captive audience that I doubted would be very receptive was something I had spent a lot of time on, but still struggled with. Especially with informative I, I had spent hours rewriting my speech to increase its relevancy before ultimately settling for a political connection between Roman and modern politics, but that evidently was not enough, proving the issue is still one I need to work on.
	As for delivery, most of my major problems were solved through practice, but watching the Info I recordings, I realized that there were many small, easily avoidable problems I never noticed. For one: I kept glancing down at my phone to check the time, which threw off my eye contact and general flow of the speech. I had memorized the speech too, just to help focus on increasing eye contact, but the purpose was entirely defeated. Resultantly, I chose not to time myself on Info II, relying on practice to allow me to know the general time I have left. However, I only had one day to practice after the preparation outline exchange on Tuesday, so not only was my timing off, my speech was not fully memorized. The recording is not yet on ELMS, but I know I stumbled at a few places and I even had to cut out 2-3 sentences to match timing issues. However, hopefully I fixed the smaller problems that had dogged my info I speech. 
	If I ever give an informative speech in the future, I will now have a guideline to reference, but many of the things I learned: eye contact, body movement, etc. can be applied to many situations, including everyday life, and I hope to be able to incorporate them as needed. 
