Steven Pence
Geography 101
Mini Essay 3
	As earlier mentioned, the largest problems facing Shanghai is flooding and the rising sea levels. The immediate solution, as it would be for all cases of rising sea levels, is to gradually pull back from the coastline in search of higher ground as sea levels creep up. However, this solution is unfortunately not very viable given the massive amount of money and people that Shanghai hosts. As one of the world’s global financial centers, it is impossible to abandon the city, and metropolitan development is already expanding the city regardless of sea level creep. Thus, the best solution possible is some way to mitigate the flooding and to deal with rising sea level problems as they crop up. Given how important of a city Shanghai is to China, her people, and her economy, countless measures are already in place to do this.
	For the time being, flood control is the primary issue of the Shanghai government. Rising sea levels are a long-term threat, while flooding is immediate and already preeminent. Thus, most efforts are focused towards flood control. China as a whole has been increasingly dependent on wells drawing from local groundwater, and in areas like Shanghai, who hosts 24 million residents, this dependence heavily stresses the groundwater supply. Overdrawing from these wells has caused Shanghai to sink into the ground. In an attempt to reverse this, Shanghai is trying to recharge its aquifers, banning the use of wells and pumping in 5.2 billion gallons of water a year to prevent further sinking (Mcdonald, 2014). Further flood control methods include the “sponge city” project discussed previously, which will be omitted here, and the creation of massive flood prevention walls along the Huangpu river, which bisects the city (Mcdonald, 2014). Alongside the 520 kilometers of flood prevention walls, Shanghai also regulates water levels in nearby creeks leading into the Huangpu through mechanical gates controlling water flow (GB Times, 2015). In addition, Shanghai is investing in a deep-water drainage project that will aimed at facilitating rainwater storage, purification, and discharge into the Suzhou Creek, increasing the current drainage capacity of 36 millimeters per hour to 55 millimeters per hour (Upgrade for Creek …, 2016).


















Works Cited
GB Times. (2015, December 07). Hundreds of kilometers of protective sea walls in China. 	Retrieved from https://gbtimes.com/shanghai-takes-measures-against-rising-sea-levels
Mcdonald, J. (2014, July 28). Shanghai is Sinking. Retrieved from 	https://abcnews.go.com/Technology/story?id=120074&page=1
Roxburgh, H. (2017, December 28). China's 'sponge cities' are turning streets green to combat 	flooding. Retrieved from https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/dec/28/chinas-	sponge-cities-are-turning-streets-green-to-combat-flooding
Upgrade for creek flood defenses. (2016, August 12). Retrieved from 	http://www.shanghai.gov.cn/shanghai/node27118/node27818/u22ai83730.html
