Steven Pence
Geography 101
Ted Talk 3: Ice Loss
	While human-made climate change is a very real danger, it is not immediately visible to the majority of the human population. Living in human-sculpted areas, be it metropolises in New York or Shanghai, or in smaller urban centers, the effects of climate change are but a few weather oddities. Perhaps man-made, perhaps natural, but not significant enough to affect everyday life. However, while perhaps not yet affecting daily life, the effects of climate change are clearly visible should one desire to inquire a bit more.
	Visible effects of human made climate change are already showing through the melting of the polar ice caps and the directly related rising sea levels. Worldwide, shorelines are pushed back, and some islands are beginning to be submerged. Accompanying these changes are more extreme weather patterns. Climate change causes weather to become more pronounced, of which scientist believe the recent Californian drought is one such example (Citation). As the planet continues to change, some areas will begin to dry out while others may experience flooding. Resultingly, global ecosystems will change as the planet becomes warmer. Previously suitable environments for local flora and fauna will no longer be suitable, and entire ecosystems could shift. One example of this can already be seen in the oceans. According to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority: fish are extremely sensitive to subtle changes in the ocean environment. Increasing sea temperatures will affect biological processes of fish ranging from growth and reproduction to behavior and swimming ability (Citation).
	As a costal state, Maryland cannot escape climate change. Maryland has the highest coastline ratio and harbors the largest estuary in the world, the Chesapeake Bay. Over the past century, bay waters have risen 1 foot, and are predicted to rise another 1.3 to 5.2 feet over the next century (Citation). These changes will increase costal flooding and erosion, damaging the wetland environment faster than it can populate higher ground. Rising water temperatures will damage native species such as eelgrass, and directly contribute to the formation of dead zones, a problem the state is already trying to resolve (Citation). Aside from the bay, climate change will also rear its head in other places. Western Maryland is still partially agricultural, and changes in soil, precipitation, and temperature that comes with climate change will directly affect the harvest. Regarding weather, as more extreme weather events occur, buildings vulnerable to these changes will be damaged, as recently evident of the heavy storms and subsequent flooding in Ellicott City. The “Once in a Century” storm has occurred again, and within the span of a few years. As climate change continue to shape the earth, these extreme weather events will continue to appear and cause damage, to Maryland and the entirely of the world.











Worked Referenced
Balog, James. “Time-lapse proof of extreme ice loss” July. Oct. 2009. Lecture.
Chesapeake Bay Program (n.d.). Climate Change. Retrieved June 9, 2018, from 	https://www.chesapeakebay.net/issues/climate_change
Gillis, J. (2015, August 20). California Drought Is Made Worse by Global Warming, Scientists 
	Say. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/21/science/climate-change-
	intensifies-california-drought-scientists-say.html
Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. (n.d.). Climate change impacts on fish. Retrieved 
	from http://www.gbrmpa.gov.au/managing-the-reef/threats-to-the-reef/climate-
	change/what-does-this-mean-for-species/fish
