Steven Pence
Geography 101
Mini Essay 2
	As the planet warms and changes, humans need to adapt and meet these changes, but largescale changes and reform is not an easy demand. Alongside the rise in temperature, scientists and activists always cite rising sea levels as a major source of danger, of how coastal areas and islands will soon be submerged. However, should the land be submerged under water, what will the people do? Humans have the ability to physically move out of the area, but are economically, emotionally, socially tied to their home. Often, abandoning an area is not a viable option, especially when the area in question is a major metropolis of the world, like Shanghai. 
	Shanghai is a global financial center and transport hub that houses 24 million residents. Located on a peninsula between the Yangtze River Delta and the Hangzhou Bay and bisected by the Huangpu River, Shanghai is built on an alluvial plain, meaning that most of its land area is flat, with an average elevation of just 4 meters above sea level (Topographical Features, 2011). This makes Shanghai especially susceptible to the rising sea levels and flooding. Last September in 2017, heavy rainfalls that hit Shanghai resulted some areas swamped under over a meter of rainfall (Bo, 2017). However, this is not a rare occurrence, as Shanghai annually experiences mild flooding following heavy rain. In the concrete city, water has nowhere to go, building up on the ground when drainage systems can not keep up with the amount of rainwater dumped on the city. 
	In an attempt to help alleviate this problem, government officials have launched a plan to create “sponge cities” that soak up more rainwater. Currently, only about 20-30% of the city’s rainwater sinks into groundwater, but through the installation of permeable sidewalks and roads and the planting of rain gardens, the plan is to hopefully retain as much as 70% of the storm water runoff (Roxburgh, 2017).  In addition to projects like these, the city is also responsible for building flood prevention walls and improving the drainage system along with helping inform the public of the potential dangers (Holder, Kommenda, Watts, 2017).



















Works Cited
Bo, X. (2017, September 25). Heavy rain floods Shanghai. Retrieved from 	http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2017-09/25/c_136637494.htm
Holder, J., Kommenda, N., & Watts, J. (2017, November 3). The three-degree world: Cities that 	will be drowned by global warming. Retrieved from 	https://www.theguardian.com/cities/ng-interactive/2017/nov/03/three-degree-world-	cities-drowned-global-warming
Roxburgh, H. (2017, December 28). China's 'sponge cities' are turning streets green to combat 	flooding. Retrieved from https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/dec/28/chinas-	sponge-cities-are-turning-streets-green-to-combat-flooding
"Topographic Features". Basic Facts. Shanghai Municipal People's Government. Retrieved 19 	July 2011. 

