Steven Pence
Geography 101
Ted Talk 4
	Howard County, as per the 2010 census, boasts a population of 287,085 people, a number that is constantly growing as more development takes places (U.S. Census Bureau). As the population increases, so too will the demand for energy, the need for housing, and local traffic the area experiences. As a small municipality, Howard County itself does not have the authority or economic power to make large decisions, especially concerning energy, which would likely be state and city level decisions that affect millions of people. However, the County can still regulate and influence how energy, transportation, water, etc. is handled within its own borders. What the county can, or cannot do, are important questions that much be asked before an energy plan can be constructed. In addition, renewable energy is an effort supported by the federal government, how much the county itself can benefit is also a matter worth researching.
	In regard to what the county is capable of, it is unlikely local rivers can be tapped for much energy, and the installation of windmills could pose two problems. One, there simply is not much space available for their placement. Second, windmills are incredibly intrusive, adversely affecting the county residents. Howard County’s residents lean towards the wealthy side – driving away these residents would be a huge loss (U.S. Census). To address the rising demand for energy, one possible solution is to support private use of solar power. Solar energy has a high upfront cost, but some residents may be able and willing to afford this cost if given some incentives and educated on the matter. In addition, while the County may not be able to provide new sources of energy, it can influence how energy is used. To this end, energy conservation efforts can, and already have been, pursued. Information campaigns that the government and public schools spread have raised awareness on energy use and conservation. This translates to the reduction of energy used by households, lessening the overall demand for energy.
	If the population of the County remained the same and further development ceased, nothing would change. The switch to renewable energy would progress regardless of energy demand, and energy conservation is the same. One potential difference would likely be how fast the plan is implemented. High energy demands necessarily demands faster response, but if demand stays constant, the response can be more measured and carefully executed. 
















Works Cited
Hopkins, Rob. “Transition to a World Without Oil” TED. Jul. 2009. Lecture.
"Selected Economic Characteristics: 2012 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates 	(DP03): All Counties Within United States". U.S. Census Bureau, American Factfinder. 
"State & County QuickFacts". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on
	July 6, 2011.

