Steven Pence
Geography 101
May 30, 2018
Ted Talk 1: Is the World Flat?
	As Ghemawat would suggest, the world is not, and likely will never be, truly flat. With the advent of internet, of increasingly readily available intercontinental travel, and various other technological advancements, the world has become more and more ‘flat’. Many countries would be hard pressed to exist without the reliance of other nations, especially with modern society’s increasing dependence on trade. However, despite all of this, the world cannot be described as flat. To support his claim Ghemawat mentions statistics such as immigration, GDP, foreign investment, and social media. However, beyond that, it is simply impractical for the world to be completely flat. People tend to sta0y within their own communities: it is easier and simply more convenient to do so. The same could be said for ideas such as immigration. Moving to a completely different country is an expensive and tedious experience, especially as the person will likely be leaving behind a majority of their family and friends. As such, a world in which countries boast even a 30 or 40 percent immigrant population would only be possible in perhaps apocalyptic scenarios, at least with today’s limited modern technology.
	One clear of example of how the world is not flat is the ethnic difficulties people face today in modern civilization. People can not come to terms with cultural differences, which hinders the globalization efforts. The ignorance people have towards matters such as religious or cultural differences creates tension and conflict, which in turn reduces how people approach the idea of globalization. While this problem is being slowly mitigated throughout the world, the fact that the U.S. State Department recently made a statement about their commitment to “Stomp Religious Persecution Around the World” demonstrates that this problem is far from solved (Rosales, E, 2018). If people understood geography more, and understood each other more, perhaps there would be less resistance to globalization efforts.



Works Referenced
Ghemawat, Pankaj. " Actually, the world isn't flat" TED. Oct. 2012. Lecture.
Rosales, E. (2018, May 30). This Is the State Dept. Plan to Stomp Religious Persecution Around 	the World. Retrieved May 30, 2018, from 	http://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/world/2018/may/brownback-wants-to-wipe-out-religious-	persecution-around-the-world
