Steven Pence
Geography 101
Transportation Choice
	Have any of you have been to New York? For those of you who have, did you drive? How long did it take? If you’re lucky, if there isn’t much traffic and you don’t stop, then 3-4 hours might do it. That a lot of time. What if I told you that it could be done in just an hour and a half? Well I’d be lying, Amtrak trains from D.C. to New York takes about 3 and a half hours and costs 90 dollars. That’s not worth it, it takes just as long, costs more than standard gas fare, and now I don’t have my car with me either. In America cars are so prevalent that other forms of transportation rendered moot, as Americans, we don’t even consider trains as an alternative transportation method.
	However, there is one definitive benefit to trains: they are more environmentally friendly. Strictly off emissions, cars preform much worse than trains. Everyone’s together on a train, but cars often only contain one or two passengers. Per European standards, cars are permitted to emit around 120 grams of CO2 per kilometer traveled. This is only for when the car is operation normally, when we’re stuck in traffic these numbers get much worse. Highspeed trains on the other hand run on electric power grids; only emitting around 20 to 25 grams of CO2 per passenger kilometer. When talking about transportation, we can’t forget about aviation. I’m sure none of you will even consider driving to California, or even just the Midwest. 40 hours to get to California, that’s with no stops. The much better option is to take a plane, but who could have guessed, flying emissions are really bad. We’re talking about taking a metal plane and putting it in the air using ultra-refined fossil fuels, that’s not going to be a very green process, no matter how we try to optimize it. I’m sure you can guess what I am going to say next, a bus/train does exist from D.C. to L.A, though I am not sure how many people actually use it. It takes a whole 63 hours and costs 200 dollars, its not cheap, AND its slower than a car. I wouldn’t recommend it to anyone.
	For anyone still listening, it may seem like I’m discouraging the usage of trains. And I guess I somewhat am, at least for the trains of today. We have stopped using trains a long time ago, and the industry is using technology and rails developed over a century ago. Remember the D.C. to New York City train I mentioned earlier, the 3 and a half hours one? A highspeed rail covering the same distance would take 90 minutes. A trip from Baltimore to Houston is about a 20 hour drive, and American trains and buses will get you there in 32. Highspeed rails from Beijing to Guangzhou cover the same distance, a bit more actually, and it’ll you there in 8 hours for 140 bucks. You could board the train, take a short nap, and you’ll be there. 
	If highspeed rails are so great, why don’t we have them in place already? China is creating a rail network that will connect 90% of its population, and the U.S. is a much stronger country economically, so why aren’t we doing the same? Well for one, the United States is a fully developed nation while China is a developing one. Whereas they are building these rails to connect their cities, ours are already fully connected, both by road and by rail. Installing new high-speed rails systems have a high upfront cost and connecting the entire country is a long-term project that would span well over a decade, likely even longer. Second, our transportation culture is not one that includes trains. In our society today, its easy to even forget that we actually have a functional railroad system. When’s the last time any of you traveled by train? 
	This isn’t to say that high speed rails aren’t for us. They are incredibly fast and efficient, and as the U.S. population continues to grow, the roadways will become more and more congested, and a switch to rail-based travel could very well be the answer we are looking for. Railroads have been accepted to be effective, and under the Obama administration, there have been efforts to revitalize the industry and to lay down tracks for our own high-speed rail systems. While they are not yet complete, perhaps in the future, as existing projects finish and more funding flows into high speed railways, we can also look forward to riding in this old, yet new form of transportation. 
