Steven Pence
Mini Essay 1
	The veracity of climate change, for the scientific community, is a finished deal. The consensus among scientists is that man-made climate change is a fact. To find evidence that climate change exists, scientists examine tree rings, ocean sediments, and extract ice cores from glaciers to examine Earth’s conditions in the past. As evidence that climate change exists, scientists use statistics such as the rising levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases in the air contrasted with historic trends over the past few millennia (see fig. 1). In addition, as increasing chemical levels are difficult to visualize, scientists point to more readily visible physical changes related to climate change. These include the rise of the global temperature, warmer oceans, shrinking ice sheets, rising sea levels, etc. (NASA, Apr. 2018). The greatest proof towards climate change is the sheer number of scientists that support it. According to NASA, multiple studies have shown that 97 percent or more of the actively publishing climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are likely due to human activities (NASA, Feb. 2018). The scientific community is highly contentious with each other, and the basis of science is founded upon the idea of repeatable experiments to gather evidence towards one potential truth. For nearly the entire scientific community to rally behind climate change goes a long way as support of its truth. 
	However, if 97 percent of scientists agree on climate change, there yet remains another 3 percent. Generally, this group does not disagree with the idea of the earth warming, but rather the man-made portion of it. For science, the burden of proof falls upon those who make the claim; thus, the evidence against climate change is to disprove the notions that support climate change. Their main argument relies upon the fact that Earth warms and cools cyclically, and that Earth is currently on its warming phase. Everything else is merely a result of this trend and that the supposedly human contributions to climate change is negligible and unproven. For one, they claim that while CO2 levels have been rising in the past century, it is not related to human activity. They claim that CO2 levels fluctuate with the earth’s temperature, and thus, CO2 levels would naturally rise as Earth warms (Friends of Science). In addition, they claim that CO2 is not the most common greenhouse gas and how it contributes very little to the greenhouse effect (Friends of Science).





Figure 1: Concentrations of Greenhouse Gases from 0 to 2005. Adapted from IPCC 4th Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007: Synthesis Report. Pachauri, R.K. and Reisinger, A








Worked Cited
Climate change evidence: How do we know? (2018, April 04). Retrieved from 	https://climate.nasa.gov/evidence/
Friends of Science. (n.d.). The Myths and Facts of Global Warming. Retrieved from 	https://www.friendsofscience.org/index.php?id=3
Scientific consensus: Earth's climate is warming. (2018, February 08). Retrieved from 	https://climate.nasa.gov/scientific-consensus/
