Tulsa Riots
Monday May 30, 1921:
4:00 pm – 19 year old Dick Rowland, black shoe shiner, enters the elevator of a nearby 
Drexel Building to use a black-restricted top floor restroom. He encounters Sarah Page, 17 year old elevator operator who screams and Dick Rowland rushes out of the building. A clerk finds a distressed Page and summons the authorities
Tuesday May 31, 1921:
	Rowland is arrested and transported to the jail.
3:00 pm – Tulsa Tribune publishes article with headline: “Nab Negro for Attacking Girl 
      In an Elevator" and warns of a potential lynching.
4:00 pm – White people begin to congregate around the Courthouse, authorities on alert
7:30 pm – About 30 black men armed with rifles and shotguns go to the courthouse to 
      support the sheriff but are encouraged to return home.
7:34 pm – Several hundreds of whites assembled outside of the court, a lynch mob forms. 
      Sheriff positions his men on the roof and tries to talk down the crowd to no avail.
8:20 pm – Three white men enter the courthouse demanding Rowland to be handed over, 
      Sheriff refuses
Seeing armed black men, many whites return home to grab weapons and swells to over 2000 individuals.
10:00 pm – A larger group of 75 armed black men go to the courthouse again, who again 
refuses. A white man demands a black to surrender his gun, who refuses, and a shot is fired, be it accidental or not. The gunfire triggers the riot and both sides open fire. The blacks retreat to Greenwood and whites pursue.
11:00 pm – National Guard assembles to subdue rioters and rounds up blacks.
12:00 pm – Rioters again assemble around the courthouse but are turned away.
Wednesday June 1, 1921:
Morning Hours: Whites and blacks square off with gunfire. Raid squads venture into 
      greenwood and exchange gunfire.
1:00 am – White mob sets fire to commercial Archer Street at the south of the 
      Greenwood District. Fire department arrives but is turned away at gunpoint.
4:00 am – 2 dozen black-owned businesses had been set ablaze
5:00 am – A train whistle (siren) is heard and is taken as a signal for the rioters to launch 
      an all-out assault on Greenwood. Blacks retreat to the northern edge of 
Greenwood. Looters break into buildings and destroy them.
9:15 am – Oklahoma National Guard arrives with 109 troops, but cannot act until they 
      have spoken with all the local authorities.
11:49 am – Martial Law is declared and troops suppress most of the fighting


Who/what started the Tulsa Riot?
	The event that led to the gathering outside the sheriff was that a young black man was accused of assaulting a white woman, but this event never occurred, as stated by the victim herself. The immediate riot was started after a black man was demanded to hand over his gun but refused and a shot, accidental or not was fired. This led to full scale exchange of gunfire between the whites and blacks and instigates the riot.

Who was responsible?
	The media that largely overblows the situation causes the mob to form in the anticipation of a lynching. The deep-rooted racism and frustration of the whites towards the blacks acted as a large catalyst for the initial situation to form in the first place.

What was the worst act of the riot?
	The air raids on Greenwood that dropped the turpentine balls onto the roofs of the buildings was legit an act of war and not a ‘suppression of riot’. Military equipment was used to attack the back resident in this riot, subtly indicating and the government essentially supports the riot and the destruction of the wealthy black community.

