Steven Pence
HIST 135
October 15, 2017
Professor Coopermon
Red Summer Midterm II
	During the summer of 1919, the infamous Red Summer, deep rooted and divisive frustration exploded into senseless violence and destruction. On the heels of the greatest victory of the era, after nations of the world came together to uphold liberty, America would come to face its own dark past. Her people had to make sense for themselves what was just and fight to preserve their very way of life. From nation-wide fears of bolshevism and deep-seated white superiority to local political issues, a multitude factors would come together to ultimately result the violence that is remembered as the Chicago, Washington, and Phillips County Riots.
	 Following in the end of the war, soldiers came home to see their jobs taken by outsiders, creating tension and anger, but the core issue was not so much a competition for jobs, which was inevitable in any society. The real problem was that America’s black population had profited and elevated their social standing from the war. There were wealth black men, and blacks who had the gall to compete directly with whites. The relationship between blacks and whites had been changing for decades, but WWI had greatly accelerated the progress, and the white man came home to see the borders between race more blurred than ever. For a society that saw blacks as inferior, this was unacceptable. Anger against the ‘insolent’ blacks fed the tension between the races, a tension too easily ignited by otherwise small affairs. In Chicago, it was a murder; in Washington, an attempted robbery; in Phillips county, a shootout. In each case, a violent, but not uncommon, event would trigger the explosion of the white man’s years of suppressed anger.
	In response to these individual acts of violence, mobs of thousands gathered, but moving large crowds is difficult and requires legitimacy to validate their violence. This call to legitimacy was the Red Scare, of radical blacks seeking to undermine white society. Sensational media reported wildly overblown stories: the murder in Chicago, etc. Crowds gathered in response, but often it was rumors of blacks gathering weapons or planning revolts that sparked the violence. In Phillips County, a supposed negro plot against whites incited thousands of white men to storm the county. In Chicago, rumors of blacks stockpiling weapons circulated in the media, and news of the “race war” inundated Washington’s papers. Then, after the suppression of violence, the cause was perpetually placed on “agitators” and Bolsheviks, accusations often sanctioned by government authorities. Though racial tension had come to a peak in 1919, it was the Red Scare and bolshevism that gave whites an opportunity to act out their frustrations, and large-scale riots and violence was simply their method of execution.
	However, society does not simply crumble at the first sign of instability, and there are countless countermeasures authorities could use to contain such violence, but in too many cases, local political intrigues hampered such responses. In 1919, the U.S. was a white man’s country run by a white man’s government. No one who sought political power dared offend the white constituency by helping blacks, especially in the South. And no local authority wants to acknowledge that his city, his domain, required outside help to fix a problem he had allowed to be created. In Charleston, swift military response quelled any impending violence, but riots like Charleston were the exception. In too many cases, authorities hesitated to call in outside assistance. In Chicago, federal troops watched the city burn for a week as the mayor and the governor dallied to call them in. In Washington, the seat of the nation’s government, three days of wonton violence passed before the president had to personally call in military support. The general lack of local government response fueled the mobs, who were emboldened knowing that thousands could unite under a cause without significant fear of government backlash.
	Unresolved racial anger dating back decades, even centuries, had been building up. This anger flared up from time to time, but it was WWI and the changes it brought back, from economics to the Bolshevik fear, that finally allowed for a channel through which this tension could be expressed. Small, inconsequential issues exploded into violence, too often unopposed by government officials fearing for their political standing.  In the summer of 1919, deep-seated white superiority would be fanned by national fears of black radicalism and local political intrigues to culminate into the violence that is remembered today as the Red Summer.

